it hello welcome to this lesson which is
on IELTS writing task 2 the double
question essay I'm going to teach you a
structure from beginning right through
to the end how to do this sentence by
sentence let's have a look first we need
to think about the question prompt let's
think about the question prompt because
in the Isles it won't tell you what type
of guests day you have to write you just
have to look at the question prompt and
think ah that's the double question
essay or ah that's the
advantages/disadvantages essay type this
applies to both general and academic
this is what the question prompt will
look like on test day this is what
you're going to see on your paper you're
going to see some general instructions
to spend about 40 minutes on the tasks
on the task rather then you're going to
see the question prompt and then you'll
see this the generic things about using
your knowledge and writing 250 words we
need to think about this a bit more
deeply we need to look at this because
it contains some parts that we need to
understand the first part it contains is
a general statement in fact this
contains three sentences this question
prompt contains three sentences we're
going to look at each sentence because
each sentence is extremely important for
the structure that we're about to learn
first sentence is a general statement it
says formal exams are used to assist
students at the end of each semester in
many countries it's just a general
statement about formal exams there's
nothing particular about it it's not a
question it's just a general step
background statement fine the second
sentence is a question it's the question
what we call question one it says why
are these exams these exams formal exams
used by schools and universities
the third sentence is question 2 it says
what other types of assessment are
possible hmm so we're faced with this we
have three sentences or three question
parts general statement question one and
a question - that's why this is called
the double essay question let's look at
the essay structure we're going to use
and I want you to write with me I want
you to write it sentence by sentence
with me from beginning to end there's no
other way to really learn how to write
an essay other than by writing essays so
let's do it sentence by sentence or
overall the structure will be like this
we're going to have four paragraphs
introduction paragraph one paragraph two
and a conclusion
fine let's see overall structure that's
easy but what's inside each of these
paragraphs well this is what we're going
to do in this live class we're going to
look at sentence one of the introduction
sentence two of the introduction
sentence three of the introduction so if
it's one of the paragraph one sentence
to a paragraph ones etc right through to
the final sentence of the conclusion
let's think about not just think about
let's do it how to write the
introduction please get a pen ready this
is this part of your essay if we magnify
this if we look at this a bit more
closely it looks like this this is what
the introduction is sentence 1 you
rewrite that general statements remember
how our question had three parts the
general statement question 1 question 2
all you're really doing for your
introduction is rewriting each of those
sentences that becomes your introduction
so let's have a closer look
so sentence 1 you rewrite the general
statement sentence 2 of your
introduction you introduced answer to
question one sentence 3 you introduced
and answer the question
- here's the general statement again
from our question it said formal exams
are used to assess students at the end
of each semester in many countries
question one was that in question two is
that fine let's do sentence 1 rewrite
that general statement now I want you to
write I want you to transform this into
your own words say the same thing that
just write it in your own words I'm
going to give you three minutes to
rewrite this sentence in other words to
say the same thing if 3 minutes starts
now
think about synonyms think about
changing nouns to verbs or verbs the
nouns think about different ways to say
the same thing
here on YouTube please like this class
and please feel free to write your
answers into the comments below Herman
says academic examinations often using
many nationalities not quite
nationalities is the wrong word to
generate an academic report to students
good Herman it's good nationalities is
the wrong word talking about countries
you can say used by many nationalities
that would be fine
Victor Hess Susan Belisario lópez's
written testing systems commonly applied
in several countries oh not quite Victor
several countries is very different to
many countries and we're talking about
formal exam so don't change it two
months you can just say formal exams or
formal examinations you have one minute
left on alone Julia says usually a
formal assessment is used to check
students knowledge at the end of the
study period in many countries good you
don't need to add any infant any other
information about what it does we're
just rewriting this statement Sudha says
in most countries traditional method of
assessing students is comment I good
it's close in most countries
traditional methods of assessing
students is common good Maria says how
to verify students after each semester
is a challenging issue these days formal
exam is one of those solutions which is
used to it okay
we're just right rewriting this they're
all fine but I'm I don't get too
creative don't get too creative just
simply rewrite that don't add in
information don't say what they do don't
give anything else with just changing
these words let me show you what I've
done
this is my sentence here so this is how
I rewrote it let's reread let's read the
general statement again it says formal
exams I use to assess students at the
end of each semester so we got formal
exams without assessment with students
that end of the semester and we have
many countries so I wrote this
universities in most countries around
the world tend to formally examine their
students at the end of every semester
these two things say the exact same
thing but just in different words so
what have we got well instead of formal
exams are used I said are formally
examined their students so I've changed
that noun exams into a verb examine in
many countries I said in most countries
around the world at the end of each
semester I said at the end of every
semester why because there's no other
way to say that so I can't rewrite
everything I need to keep the meaning so
these two sentences basically say the
same thing and we have just written the
first sentence of our introduction which
is fabulous let's write the second
sentence where we need to introduce the
answer to question 1 question 1 ask this
why are these exams why a formal exams
used by schools and universities I want
you to briefly answer this question in 2
minutes why our formal exams used by
schools and universities two minutes one
sentence
good Constantine Walton your first
sentence is excellent and great use of
the apostrophe great myrrh
perfect sentence Maria writes these
kinds of exams are used to assess
students against what they are taught
during that semester perfect Herman I
just want you to answer the question
simply pseudo says as many people
consider this this is the best way of
knowing what a student has learned
throughout the year good a few
grammatical issues that's good no good
Julia right these ways of assessing have
been a conventional measure in the
education system for many years good
that's fine well done Victor says is
believed by many education no
educational institutions that written
exams are the cheapest and most
effective way good of assessment good so
you're heading down that path that's
fine Prabhakar says this exam these
exams not this exams these exams are
used to assess students academic skills
as well as how well they understood the
subject they learn good and two minutes
is up and that's right we just we essay
writing people try to make it too
complex and they think that the more
complex that you are the video school
bit is not like that you need to be
clear clarity is everything just answer
that question if I said to you if I was
just standing next to you and I said why
a formal exam used by schools and
universities you'd say Jay formal exams
are used well let's see what I wrote I
wrote this fully it's for formal exams
are carried out in order to measure
learning progress and determine the
particular academic level of the
students that's why they used to measure
learning progress and to determine a
particular academic level this is my
answer there are many many different
possible answers this was mine
somebody talked about there
and the cheek that's fine you can do
that too carry on with your line of
thinking we've written the second
sentence of our introduction and it's
good now let's write the third sentence
introduce the answer to question two
which asked what other types of
assessment other than formal examination
are possible you have two minutes to
write this sentence don't write anything
else just answer the question
other times I eat not formal assessment
not formal exam rather think back to
when you ate when you went to school he
had written exams what other ways can
you assess a student's sudha says
search and projects could be other forms
of examination to examine the students
or other ways to examine the students
good research and projects well done
excellent simple clear you can focus on
your grammar Maria says although formal
assessments of one of the best ways
other types of assessments such as
assigning projects and doing research
must be looked into here we're sort of
getting off track not must be looking to
are possible or our alternatives Julia
says although the traditional assessment
is prevalent there are some other
alternatives such as authentic
assessment and self-assessment beautiful
well done Herman says project assessment
and essays are feasible alternatives of
other examinations great victor says
presentations reports and Group
assessments can be other alternatives to
written exams well done none so Alan
says a queers or students performance
during workshops could be other forms of
assessments beautiful you've got the
right idea well done precisely so when I
say to you I'm standing next to you
there's no difference except for you
just have to speak formally I say hey
what are the types of assessment of
possible and you say Jake there are many
different alternatives to whatever you
wrote this is what I wrote I wrote well
as a little bit flowery despite the
widespread usage of formal examinations
there are many other ways to examine
students including essay writing and
interviews to name but a few
I simply answered that question so let's
have a look because now we've written
one two three sentences of our
introduction this is what my
introduction looks like it's sixty-four
words and it's taught on universities in
most countries around the world tend to
formally examine their students at the
end of every semester
formal exams are carried out in order to
measure learning progress and determine
the particular academic level of the
students despite the widespread usage of
formal examinations there are many other
ways to examine and examine students
including essay writing and interviews
to name but a few
this is what the IELTS examiner's are
looking for
why because task achievement first
criteria of IELTS writing is you write
on topic if all you do is rewrite those
three sentence parts then you will be on
topic and you will get full points for
task achievement grammar
well it's good I'm a native speaker fine
my grandma's fine vocabulary I've shown
off showing off a little bit despite
widespread what are the big words have I
used in order to so I've used the phrase
here learning progress determine as a
verb so I've used some good language but
I've only used language that I
understand don't use words that you
don't really get because they may be
incorrect and what's what a better thing
to do is to use a simple word you know
than a complex word you don't know
that's incorrect
right done so we've written the
introduction now we need to write
paragraph 1 and let's follow the same
method sentence by sentence follow me
let's do it this is what it looks like
paragraph 1 let's look at closely at it
its sentence 1 and we're going to focus
on question 1 of the question prompts
you answer question 1 you give reasons
you give examples you restate the answer
question 1 was why are these exams used
by schools and universities so in the
introduction we briefly mentioned it now
we go into more detail about it this is
where we can develop our ideas and we
can do the third IELTS writing criteria
which is about coherence or development
of your essay cool
so sentence 1 of paragraph 1 you need to
answer question 1 why are these exams
why are formal exams these formal exams
used by schools and universities further
develop your right one sentence you have
3 minutes a bit longer
[Music]
it should also link to your introduction
so you're saying the same thing as your
introduction but just in different words
but you're just developing the idea
expanding the idea so you use the same
idea as your introduction
why our formal assessments or formal
exams used by schools and universities
sentence answer this question great so
Herman has written one argument put
forward in favor of using formal exams
is that they assess the knowledge and
theories that have been taught at
schools beautiful well done
Julia writes the effective results and
the teachers preferences are the reasons
that can explain why this assessment is
used widely in schools or widely by
schools effective results and the
teachers preferences for formal exams
are the reasons good well done Victor
written exams are implemented by
universities in schools because this
because they are cost effective great so
your paragraph Victor is going to expand
that idea about cost-effectiveness good
what else we got your ten seconds to
finish this sentence so des says
universities and schools use this method
of assessment as they are as it is
believed to be a very convenient way of
knowing what students have learned
beautiful well done cool let me show you
mine because this gets a bit confusing
because then you start to think am i
repeating myself the answer is yes you
are repeating yourself but just again in
different words it's fine to repeat the
ideas it's not fine to repeat the same
language so you're expressing that idea
in different words but essays are
repetitive if you think about an essay
this is what it is the introduction
tells the reader what you will tell them
then you tell the reader then in the
conclusion you tell the reader what you
told them this is how you develop that
logical development and coherence this
is what makes a good essay
but it just uses different words to
repeat the ideas cool so I said why are
these exams used by schools and
universities in my introduction I said
something about measuring progress and
determining academic level here I've
said measuring progress in determining
the particular level of a student
through formal examination is important
for many stakeholders now I'm building
and development through my paragraph
somebody said about cost-effectiveness
you see where my paragraph is going I've
reiterated or repeated the same idea
from my introduction this is fine now
let's move on to sentence two we've done
sentence one we've answered question one
I now need to give reasons so for mine
we measure progress and we determine a
particular level of the student through
formal examination why because it's
important for stakeholders stakeholders
what might be the students or the
teachers or the university
administration people in other words the
different people involved so that's what
I'm building my paragraph around you
also might be different that's fine now
what I need to do is give reasons for
what I've just written in the first
sentence after that I'm going to give
examples so let's give reasons why are
these exams used by schools and
universities follow on from your first
sentence where you go you have two
minutes if you talked about
cost-effectiveness
give reasons why formal exams are cost
effective if you talked about
how formal exams are efficient if
reasons why they're efficient or a
reason if you talked about why formal
exams are preferred by teachers and
students it reasons why they're
preferred by teachers and students good
some maria's reason is that all the
students can be assessed at the same
time with minimum effort of the teachers
beautiful great reason well done
Julia says this enables we need
something someone this enables teachers
to assess the big group of children
within a short period of time fantastic
well done Herman says in other words
it's easier to measure student skills
with formal exams especially paper-based
exams which open up an avenue for
teachers to write feedback on the paper
great Victor says the funds provided
unlimited and this kind of examination
helps to save cost of staff and material
used good these are good reasons reasons
reasons fine well done let's now look at
the next part first of all let me show
you mine okay
let's read the entire paragraph so far
measuring progress in determining the
particular level of a student through
formal examination is important for many
people or stakeholders most importantly
the student once this is my reason why
we do it most why we assess formally
most importantly the student wants to be
evaluated in order to know how
I'll he or she is progressing in
addition I've written two sentences by
the way universities and schools like to
know how effective their teaching
practices are that's fine now I've kind
of cheated I said sentence two if you
want to write an additional sentence
that's fine this structure is flexible
so if one sentence and you feel I could
add a good second sentence here do it
that's fine this is a flexible structure
let's now move we've given a reason now
let's give an example but what I'll do
first is I'll give you my example so you
know what I've done here so I wrote and
this is a personal experience I have
been both a student this is my example I
have been both a student and a teacher
and on both occasions I appreciated
knowing whether or not I was progressing
whether my students were progressing
this is my example so maybe you want to
use something personal in your example
so why are these exams used by schools
and universities give your example you
have two minutes the examples
the way it should connect to your
reasons if you want you can start the
sentence with for example Herman writes
take Maps
for example this subject clearly needs
this methodology methodology this
assessment in order to measure the
progress level good methodology is the
wrong word assessment evaluation
examination these are the words you
should use they're synonyms
if you're watching this on youtube don't
forget to subscribe to our channel
please like the video and feel free to
leave your sentences in the comments
below
suta says for instance it has been found
that assessing students help the course
makers to know what most students can
take in and what part of the course are
complicated for certain levels of class
good sudha that's a complicated idea and
you've expressed it very well it has
been found that assessing students helps
course makers to know what most students
can't absorb is probably a better word
than take in and what part of the course
what parts plural of the course are
complicated for different levels well
the good complex idea was on Julius's
for example the assessment in many
subjects can be offered as a test
therefore I would put a full stop and
start a new sentence there Julia
therefore comma teachers can quickly
receive the actual students knowledge
mmm can receive evidence of students
knowledge would probably be better there
Durham area adults and Pedrosa's for
instance I undertook a final exam in my
course using test papers and I found it
easier to analyze good good generators
keep took and found not too confined
victus is to illustrate my view the
evaluation involves a few teachers and a
paper which is very cheap to produce
semicolon the results are matched to
standardized answers
cool good just be careful there Victor
you said a standardized answers that's
impossible
to standard I entered good well done
cool so here's mine
no I rented that already so let's look
at the fourth sentence which answered
question one
we've given reasons we've given examples
now we just need a little concluding
sentence a little concluding summarizing
sentence where we restate the answer I'm
going to show you my mind says this it
is for these reasons that formal
examinations are still widely used in
schools and universities today it is for
these reasons
that's a nice concluding way to
summarize or to summarize or in some or
in short these are different ways to do
it let's write the fourth sentence of
paragraph one summing up your idea let's
have a look at this final sentence
the paragraph Herman is quick off the
blocks he writes this paragraph has
evidenced that this evaluation method is
trouble-free and therefore is popular in
many schools and universities I wouldn't
start with this paragraph I would start
with something like as can be seen or to
wit or in summary something a little bit
clearer we don't usually mention the
word paragraph in the paragraph good
though well done Julia writes briefly
for that reason formal assessment is why
we use for that reasons those reasons
formal assessment is why we use good
fine good Julia what other short summary
sentences that we got Sudha writes
therefore in order to find out the
understanding of students and also to
note the course of it is effective
formal exams are used widely beautiful
Prabhakar these obvious from this that
these exams in tertiary Institute's are
vital for both killing two birds with
one stone
don't use idioms like that you can use
academic idioms such as in order to or
according to but don't talk about
killing birds with one stone in an
academic essay that's fine though good
lesson
Joan Murray says for these reasons comma
formal examinations are efficient to use
both students and teachers great victor
says therefore comma written tests help
the health of the schools universities
financial position what about written
tests help the financial position of
schools and universities not the health
that's a bit strange beautiful da I've
read your mind fine
let's have a look at my paragraph one I
wrote measuring progress and determining
the wait wait wait before we do that
what did we do in paragraph one we did
this we answered question one the first
sentence we gave reasons we gave
examples we've restated the end
the question month measuring progress
and determining the particular level of
a student's reform examination is
important for many stakeholders why do
we use formal examinations with question
1 my second sentence where I gave
reasons most importantly the student
wants to be evaluated in order to know
how well he or she is progressing I
added a sneaky little second sentence
here to my reason in addition
universities and schools would like to
know how effective the teaching
practices are then I give some examples
here I have been both a student and a
teacher and on both occasions I
appreciated knowing whether or not I was
progressing or whether my students were
progressing my final sentence to wrap up
the paragraph says it is for these
reasons that formal examinations are
still widely used in schools and
universities today cool now I've written
a pretty long paragraph there's 96 words
were aiming for 250 in fact my essay was
with long so if that sneaky sentence
wasn't necessary that's fine let's keep
pushing on how to write paragraph 2 well
we do the same thing as paragraph 1
we're not going to write paragraphs 2
today you can do it in your own time if
you want I'm going to skip straight to
the conclusion but let's just briefly
recap how to write the paragraphs so we
answer question 2 this time we give
reasons give examples we restate the
answer in a short summary question to
ask what other types of assessment are
possible this is what I wrote I said
formal examinations are not the only way
to measure student performance semicolon
there are a variety of ways to measure
outcomes that are not formal per se
stead of writing exam students could
have an end-of-semester
interview where that's an error that
should say where they share their
knowledge or they may want to do
something more creative and make
something of the knowledge in the form
of art or invention one of the best
assessments now this was my read
here's my example one of the best
assessments that I had at university
involved me creating a portfolio of
writing this was less formal but still
an excellent way for me and my professor
to evaluate my level of understanding
102 words probably a bit long again but
I was on a keyboard in the IELTS you
have to write the pen which slows you
down and my writing is very messy with a
pencil cool so that's my paragraph -
what did it do it answered question -
it's about question 2 of the question
prompts what did I do
since it's one may answer the question
sentence - I gave reasons sentence 3 I
gave some examples sentence 4 I wrapped
it up in a summary let's look at the
final paragraph the conclusion this is
important to get right because although
I don't think the IELTS examiner's read
your exams very carefully it's important
to have a good structure and I'm sure
they look at how your introduction
connects to your conclusion right so
here's the entire structure of the IELTS
essay the two-part question here's the
conclusion sentence 1 2 & 3 let's have a
closer look rewrite the general
statement restate the answer to question
1 restate the answer question 2 you can
see how repetitive this is becoming why
is it repetitive because we're focused
on that particular question prompt and
we are not writing about something else
we're not using the same words and by
using different words we're saying the
same idea again and again and we're
sticking on topic but we're using
different language each time so it's
fine to do this it's not a problem in
fact you should do this because one of
the biggest problems I there are many
problems people can have writing essays
grammar particularly but task
achievement sticking to the topic is
incredibly important and it's simple if
you do this it
simple if you do this let's write the
conclusion so what are we going to do
first sentence we're going to rewrite
the general statement what's the general
statement well it said formal exams are
used to assess students at the end of
each semester in many countries fine
let's rewrite that general statement you
have three minutes to rewrite this
sentence because I want it to have the
same meaning but in different words you
have three minutes
right here we go sudo says setting
students a formal examination is
commonly you is a common app commonly
used method in many countries good
well then ah method are commonly used
method all done perfect good you've
captured the same meaning that you just
use different words this is great that's
fine what else have we gone it's a
minute 30 Victor says to conclude
commonly used written formal
examinations are cost effective and help
the financial position of the
educational institutes not yet Victor
we're not introducing the answer to
question one and question do we do that
next
this sentence simply rewrites the
sentence that you're looking at why
because it's an introductory sentence
Herman says to sum up a significant
number of countries consider to use
formal evaluations as a common approach
do they consider it or do they actually
do it to sum up a significant number of
countries use formal evaluations as a
common evaluation you know evaluative
approach or common assessment approach
government that's fine you're just
simply rewriting that sentence that's in
front of you
konstantin says throughout the world
commerce students take formal
examinations plural at the end of each
educational cycle beautiful well then it
expresses the exact same meaning as that
sentence but you've used different words
synonym with different phrases etc Joe
Murray says in conclusion sophisticated
types of assessments I use to evaluate
students by the end of semester
sophisticated just say traditional or
forum or something like that remember
you're keeping the same meaning as this
sentence that's how you stay on topic
manveer says in a nutshell which
personally I don't like I prefer in
conclusion or in summary many
institutions still follow the standard
exam mode of checking students
performance that's great well done
cool so what have we done and we've well
let me show you what I've done here I
wrote all around the world students take
formal examinations every semester I've
just simply rewritten that sentence that
general statement that's it I did it in
the introduction and I did it again in
the conclusion I did it in two different
ways
I'm sticking right on the topic cool so
we've written sentence one let's write
it sentence two then three then we're
done so to write sentence - we need to
restate the answer to question one which
was why are these exams used by schools
in you
these two please you have two minutes
Holman says the effectiveness of
measuring is undoubtedly a rewarding
ways why are formal examinations used by
schools and universities the
effectiveness of formal examinations
something like that bring it back to
this this is tricky because it says
these that means formal victor says as
mentioned before this kind of
examination is cost-effective and helps
the financial position of the
educational institutions yours is what
you may have done victor is you may have
put yourself in your argument might be
too small what happens when your
argument gets too precise or too small
is it's hard to think of other ways to
say that so you may want to think about
this essay prompt again and it expands
the idea go a bit broader
suta says this type of exam is believed
to be a prominent way of examining
students understanding . thus it is used
widely well semicolon thus it is used
widely good Joe Murray says these formal
examinations are commonly used by
different universities because they are
proven to be effective in evaluating
students fairly good I hope that
sentence was a
if you're talking about fairness in your
paragraphs that's good we don't want to
introduce new ideas in the conclusion
the conclusion simply repeats the answer
to your question one and the answer to
your question to which you said in your
introduction paragraph I'm in paragraph
two for other classes conducting
traditional exams gives the path to
understand the students deficiency not
the right word may be performance might
be better cool all right fine so here's
mine I'm going to restate the answer to
question one just as I did in the
introduction but just using different
words excuse me one minute the alarms
about to go off in my office hold on
sorry about that this is about like a
big beeping fine right so the conclusion
is in fact a mirror of your introduction
in fact you do the exact same thing in
your introduction in your conclusion it
is in different words and that's a
beautiful beginning and an end to the
essay because again it's right on topic
so to restate the answer to my question
mine
I wrote this schools and universities
must endeavor to monitor the progress of
their students and formal examination is
one way of doing this remember in my
introduction I talked about measuring
progress cool so we've written sentence
to we're up to the final sentence of our
conclusion and the final sentence of
that essay we simply restate the answer
the question - we write pretty much in
terms
meaning the exact same thing as you did
in your introduction but just in
different words question to ask what
other types of assessments are possible
so please write your final sentence
good so Sudha has written other types of
assessment that can be implemented could
be research and projects Herrmann's
written there are author other
satisfying alternatives of evaluating
the skills good we need a punchy mmm I
hate to say this in a webinar we need a
sexy sentence we need a sexy last
sentence we need a sentence that will be
kind of memorable we need to begin the
sentence well and we need to finish it
well
so Maria said
playing creative work to some of the
other possible ways in assessing
students other than traditional exams
good fine good well done again we don't
want to introduce new ideas into our
conclusion we're just restating what we
wrote in our introduction that's two
minutes and 30 another 30 seconds to
write your final sentence taking a bit
our people are thinking of some golden
sentences
maybe you're just writing it on the
paper I don't know let's look at mine
hopefully this is a growth fine so I
want to wrap this up I'm going to say
the same thing as I did in the
introduction but maybe I'll connect it
back maybe I'll make this final sentence
have a bit of power a bit of punch so
I'm going to say this in spite of the
ubiquity the formal assessment in other
words how common it is ubiquity how
common it is in spite of the ubiquity of
formal assessment there are other much
more varied and sometimes creative ways
to examine students so I've drawn upon
all of the information in my
introduction my paragraphs and I've
written a nice final sentence there
we've written a conclusion one two and
three that's fine let me read you my
conclusion says this all around the
world students take formal in is that
right yes all around the world students
take formal examinations every semester
schools and universities must endeavor
to monitor the progress of the students
in formal examination is one way of
doing this in spite of the you be in
spite of the ubiquity of formal
assessment there are other much more
varied and sometimes creative ways to
examine students well maybe the question
prompt wasn't the most attractive
interesting question prompt but that
conclusion is pretty much the same thing
as my introduction my paragraphs have
gone into detail giving reasons and
examples the whole thing from beginning
to end has been perfectly aimed at that
question confident never left it never
talked about something and ciliary never
talked about something off topic just
the whole time was on topic and the
other thing about doing this following
it sentence by sentences I know exactly
what to do when I sit there on exam day
and I'm nervous
I go right i rewrite general statement i
rewrite christian line I rewrite
question - there's no creative thinking
in terms of structure the structures
there I just need to go bang bang bang
bang bang by the way you'll be
interested to know that that took you
because you had two or three minutes
there were sixteen sentences I think for
for a 33 s section so fourteen sentences
in about two minutes at 28 took you
about 35 minutes cool
the essay is complete this is what it
looks like from beginning to end
feel free if you're on YouTube to pause
this video and read it from beginning to
end you will see that it's right on
topic it follows it has a very nice
structure coherent development my
grammar is fine so there's no problem
there and vocabulary well some of the
words like ubiquity I use the word
ubiquity only because it is precise I
use the word per say for example I'm
just showing off showing the examiner
that I can use some complex vocabulary
as well and also complex sentences I've
got a variety of different sentences
I've got some short ones I've got some
long ones with you know the word which
bringing in extra information I've got
some and but I've got the views those
connecting words like despite and in
addition and these are like the cherries
on top the structure is what really
helps you to get a higher grade knowing
the grammar vocabulary and that will
help you also
cool let's oh by the way I wrote 314
words that I was typing so you don't
need to write that much 250 just over
let's recap this method the method looks
like this so you sit down on test day
and this is what you see and you can see
that this is the two-part question topic
the two-part question exam prompt why
because there are two questions fine so
we look carefully at this and then we
think okay this has three parts as a
general statement formal exams blah blah
blah as question one and it has question
two I now have all the information I
need to write my exam from these three
sentences the structure I'm going to use
will have four parts an introduction and
paragraphs another paragraph and a
conclusion and it's going to look like
this in the first one I'm going to
rewrite the general statement introduce
my answer to question one introduce my
answer to question two in paragraph one
I'm going to be going to depth about
question one I'm going to give a solid
answer give reasons examples and I'm
going to summarize paragraph two I'm
going to solve them going into depth
about question two about alternative
assessments I'm going to ask sorry that
should say question two that should say
question too and that should say
question two I'm going to give reasons
give examples I'm going to sum up in my
conclusion I'm basically going to write
rewrite an introduction but I'm going to
give this last sentence of real powerful
punch so it wraps up that entire essay
I'm going to hit 250 words and I'm going
to achieve a good IELTS score and never
do this test again that's that's the
plan
cool I'm going to stop the recording if
you have any questions feel free to
write them into the comments below if
you enjoyed this please click like leave
a comment subscribe to the channel and
you'll get much more don't forget to go
to WWE to language comm by the way